---
custom_edit_url: null
sidebar_position: 220
---
# RemoveRegistryKey element
Used for removing registry keys and all child keys either during install or uninstall.

## Windows Installer references
[Registry Table](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/registry-table), [RemoveRegistry Table](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/removeregistry-table)

## Parents
[Component](component.md)

## Attributes
**Action** (enumeration)
  : This is the action that will be taken for this registry value. This attribute's value must be one of the following:
- *removeOnInstall*: Removes a key with all its values and subkeys when the parent component is installed.
- *removeOnUninstall*: Removes a key with all its values and subkeys when the parent component is uninstalled.

**Id** (String)
  : Primary key used to identify this particular entry. If this attribute is not specified, an identifier will be generated by hashing the parent Component identifier, Root, Key, and Name.

**Key** (String)
  : The localizable key for the registry value.

**Root** (enumeration)
  : The predefined root key for the registry value. This attribute's value must be one of the following:
- *HKMU*: A per-user installation will make the operation occur under HKEY_CURRENT_USER. A per-machine installation will make the operation occur under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE.
- *HKCR*: Operation occurs under HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT. When using Windows 2000 or later, the installer writes or removes the value from the HKCU\Software\Classes hive during per-user installations. When using Windows 2000 or later operating systems, the installer writes or removes the value from the HKLM\Software\Classes hive during per-machine installations.
- *HKCU*: Operation occurs under HKEY_CURRENT_USER. It is recommended to set the KeyPath attribute to `yes` when setting this value for writing values in order to ensure that the installer writes the necessary registry entries when there are multiple users on the same computer.
- *HKLM*: Operation occurs under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE.
- *HKU*: Operation occurs under HKEY_USERS.


[Edit the schema for this page](https://github.com/wixtoolset/web/blob/master/src/xsd4/wix.xsd)